---
fip: 1
title: Pausing of ERC-20 token transfers
status: Active
author: Jonathan Ward <jonathan.ward@fetch.ai>
        https://github.com/fetchai/FIPs/blob/master/FIPs/fip-001.md
created: 2020-12-01
updated: 2020-12-10
---

## Pausing of ERC-20 token transfers 
The FET ERC-20 token contract has a function that pauses token transfers. The goal of this FIP is to define the conditions when the contract would be paused. 

## Abstract

Hacks of exchanges and smart contract vulnerabilities, and potentially security holes in the Ethereum blockchain itself, could lead to FET token-holders losing funds. This can arise from the token holders being targetted directly in the attack or from the resulting reduction in the token's value caused by the stolen tokens being liquidated. At the current time, there are several large holders of the FET token, including the FET staking contract and several exchanges. The contract has been security audited and the largest exchanges are highly reputabl but the consequences of an attack of these quantities of tokens would have severe consequences for the FET token-holding community. We propose that transfers of FET ERC-20 tokens should be paused if more than 5% of the current circulating supply were stolen in an attack. 
 
## Motivation
 - Following the recent hack on the Kucoin exchange there was substantial debate around whether token contract forks are necessary and under what circumstances tokens should be forked.  
- Fetch.ai needed to upgrade from our <a href="https://etherscan.io/token/0x1d287cc25dad7ccaf76a26bc660c5f7c8e2a05bd" target="_blank">old ERC-20 contract</a> and we brought forward our token swap to recover some funds from the hack. 
- The <a href="https://etherscan.io/token/0xaea46A60368A7bD060eec7DF8CBa43b7EF41Ad85" target="_blank"> new ERC-20 contract</a> has a “pause” function that enables all transactions to be halted by the foundation. 
- The goal of the proposal is to formalise the conditions that would lead to the pause function being activated. 


## Specification
The protocol for responding to an attack of 5% or more of the circulating supply is:

1. The Fetch.ai community should alert the Fetch.ai moderators (on its [Telegram](https://t.me/fetch_ai) group or [Discord](https://discord.com/invite/UDzpBFa) channel) that a hack has been carried out. 
2. The owners of keys for the Fetch.ai <a href="https://etherscan.io/address/0x8400ac235ed4f139a3e05670a9a3c724e448129b" target="_blank">multi-sig wallet</a> which is specified as an administrator of the FET ERC-20 token contract will pause the contract.
3. The Fetch.ai leadership will consult the community on the next steps, and based on this feedback, will set a time-frame for deploying a new contract and initiating a token swap.

## Rationale
- Provides an objective criteria for initiating a token fork that involves the community. 
- Protects the project and its community from economic damage caused by hacks on very large token holders such as exchanges.
- Maintains decentralization with the tokens being allowed to move freely under all but the most extreme conditions. 
- As the FET token becomes more decentralized and used in more real-world applications, the “pausing” option becomes obsolete without needing further modifications. 

## Backwards Compatibility
This FIP is informational and can be implemented with existing deployed smart contracts. 

## Test Cases
Not applicable. 

## Implementation
Non required. 

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).